---
layout: post
title:  "STRC.02 Tube lightweighting strength impacts"
date:   2021-03-17 03:00:00 -0800
categories: strc
---

| Field  | Value |
| ------------- | ------------- |
| **Research agenda item**  | STRC.02  |
| **Short title**  | Tube lightweighting strength impacts |
| **Extended title**  | Quantify the effect of various metal tube lightweighting strategies on tube strength  |

## Additional requirements
As many different lightweighting strategies should be tested as possible, roughly in order of decreasing popularity. For repeatability and general application, industry-standard testing methods should be employed. A four-point bending fixture with specified geometry in a universal testing machine capable of measuring force and deflection is acceptable. Resting a piece of tubing across two stepladders and piling weights on it until it breaks is not. 
## Impact
Many teams have developed specific geometries to be cut into the sides of tubes for reducing weight, while (theoretically) preserving strength. However, most of the design decisions have been aesthetic ("tesselated hexagons look good") or _argumentum ab auctoritate_ ("NASA uses isogrid, so it must be good"). Some teams have applied FEM, which, while better than nothing, is no replacement for empirical testing. 

## Priority
_Discussion of the relative priority of this research agenda item._

## Recommended approach
Obviously, it's not practical to test every possible lightweighting pattern on tube of every dimension and material. Common patterns, geometries, and materials should be prioritized. Similarly, while data on pure tensile, compressive, and shear strength would be welcome, flexural loading is probably more applicable to robot frames. I would recommend permutations of a few basic lightweighting patterns (hex, isogrid, circular hole pattern) in a couple of the more common tube geometries (1x2 1/8 wall, 1x2 1/16 wall, 1x1 1/16 wall), in 6161 aluminum tubing. Adding in a control (unlightweighted) and testing enough identical samples for a hope of statistical significance (say, 4 samples for each permutation), this already requires a fair amount of tube stock. 

## Prior art
_Discussion of any existing research that has already been done and exists within the community._
